[APPSEC-68250] Document automated ingress-nginx App and API Protection setup (#37258)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/security/application_security/setup/nginx/ingress-controller.md

- For the Helm method, the Datadog Helm chart `v3.217.0` or later.

Enable automatic configuration using the Datadog Operator or Helm.

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Datadog Operator" %}}

Add annotations to your `DatadogAgent` resource:

```yaml
apiVersion: datadoghq.com/v2alpha1
kind: DatadogAgent
metadata:
  name: datadog
  annotations:
    agent.datadoghq.com/appsec.injector.enabled: "true"
    # Optional: override the path where the nginx-datadog module is mounted
    # in the controller pod (default: /modules_mount)
    # agent.datadoghq.com/appsec.nginx.module_mount_path: "/modules_mount"
```

Apply the configuration:

```bash
kubectl apply -f datadog-agent.yaml
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Helm" %}}

Add the following to your `values.yaml`:

```yaml
datadog:
  appsec:
    injector:
      enabled: true
      # Optional: override the path where the nginx-datadog module is mounted
      # in the controller pod (default: /modules_mount)
      # nginx:
      #   moduleMountPath: "/modules_mount"
```

Install or upgrade the Datadog Helm chart (`v3.217.0` or later):

```bash
helm upgrade -i datadog-agent datadog/datadog -f values.yaml
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

> After you enable this, the Datadog Cluster Agent:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you enable automatic configuration, the Datadog Cluster Agent:
```

# Ingress-nginx support for Datadog

[Ingress-nginx][1] is a [Kubernetes ingress controller][2]
that uses NGINX as a reverse proxy and load balancer. In a Kubernetes cluster, external access is restricted by default for security reasons.
An ingress controller uses rules to control how external traffic may reach your services.

You can enable [App and API Protection][10] for your ingress-nginx controller to inspect and protect traffic at the edge of your cluster. Datadog supports two setup methods:

- **Automated configuration** (recommended): the Datadog Cluster Agent injects the `nginx-datadog` module into your ingress-nginx controller pods.
- **Manual configuration**: you add a Datadog init container and NGINX configuration snippets yourself.

## Automated configuration with App and API Protection for Kubernetes

<div class="alert alert-info">
  Automated configuration lets the Datadog Cluster Agent inject the <code>nginx-datadog</code> module into your ingress-nginx controller pods, without manual init container or NGINX snippet changes. This is the recommended approach for most users.
</div>

### Setup

This setup requires:

- The Datadog Cluster Agent `v7.79.0` or later.

> - For the Helm method, the Datadog Helm chart `v3.217.0` or later.

Author: Check your sources please: https://artifacthub.io/packages/helm/datadog/datadog

Enable automatic configuration using the Datadog Operator or Helm.

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Datadog Operator" %}}

Add annotations to your `DatadogAgent` resource:

```yaml
apiVersion: datadoghq.com/v2alpha1
kind: DatadogAgent
metadata:
  name: datadog
  annotations:
    agent.datadoghq.com/appsec.injector.enabled: "true"

>     agent.datadoghq.com/appsec.injector.proxies: '["ingress-nginx"]'

Author: This line is not required

Author: Done in 50ab3daeb4 — removed. `injector.autoDetect` (default true) already covers ingress-nginx, so `injector.enabled` alone is enough.

    # Optional: override the path where the nginx-datadog module is mounted
    # in the controller pod (default: /modules_mount)
    # agent.datadoghq.com/appsec.nginx.module_mount_path: "/modules_mount"
```

Apply the configuration:

```bash
kubectl apply -f datadog-agent.yaml
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Helm" %}}

Add the following to your `values.yaml`:

```yaml
datadog:
  appsec:
    injector:
      enabled: true
      proxies:

>         - ingress-nginx

Author: This one is also not required, remote it

Author: Done in 50ab3daeb4 — removed from the Helm tab as well.

        distroless: false
```

See the [detailed examples][5] to help you set up ingress-nginx with `nginx-datadog`.

### How does it work?
Init containers are special containers that run before the main container in a Kubernetes pod. In this case,
the Datadog init container is responsible for copying the `nginx-datadog` module into a shared volume that the
main ingress-nginx container can access.

When the main ingress-nginx controller starts, the NGINX configuration must be updated with the `load_module` directive,
allowing it to load the Datadog module.

<div class="alert alert-danger">

> Datadog provides a specific init container **for each ingress-nginx controller version**, starting with <code>v1.10.0</code>. This is crucial because **each** init container must match the underlying NGINX version. To confirm compatibility, verify that the version of the Datadog init container matches your ingress-nginx version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Datadog provides a specific init container <b>for each ingress-nginx controller version</b>, starting with <code>v1.10.0</code>. This is crucial because <b>each</b> init container must match the underlying NGINX version. To confirm compatibility, verify that the version of the Datadog init container matches your ingress-nginx version.
```
